# **Summary:**

This document outlines the implementation techniques for the AXI to APB
Bridge, a crucial component for enabling communication between AXI-based
masters and APB-based peripherals in modern embedded systems. The bridge
acts as a protocol converter, allowing high-performance AXI transactions
to be translated into APB-compatible operations.

# **Introduction:**

The AXI (Advanced eXtensible Interface) and APB (Advanced Peripheral
Bus) protocols serve different purposes in system-on-chip (SoC) designs.
The AXI protocol is designed for high-performance communication, while
APB is optimized for low-power peripherals. This bridge integrates both
protocols efficiently.

# **Design Architecture:**

The bridge architecture consists of the following key components:

**AXI Slave Interface:** Handles write and read requests from the AXI
master.

**APB Master Interface:** Manages transactions with APB peripherals.

**Round-Robin Arbiter:** Ensures fair access between read and write
transactions.

**FIFO Buffers:** Temporarily store data between AXI and APB
transactions.


**Arbitration Mechanism:**

A round-robin arbitration mechanism balances access between read and
write transactions ensuring efficient operation.


# **Simulation:**

The design was simulated in **Cadence** to verify its functionality.
Multiple test scenarios were executed, including:

**Single Write and Read Transactions**

**Fixed Burst Transactions (Write and Read)**

**Incrementing Burst Transactions**

**Wrap-Around Burst Transactions**

**Simultaneous Write and Read Transactions**

**Sequential Write and Read Transactions**


# 

# **Running the Code in Cadence:**

To run the AXI to APB bridge code in Cadence, follow these steps:

**Installation:** Ensure that Cadence tools are installed on your
machine. Verify paths to tool binaries are correctly set in your
environment.

**Project Setup:**

Create a new project directory for the AXI to APB Bridge.

Copy all Verilog or VHDL files related to the bridge design into this
directory.

**Synthesis Configuration:**

Open Cadence and create a new project.

Configure the project settings to point to the directory containing your
bridge files.

Set the target synthesis tool as per your project requirements.

**Compile Design:**

Use the Cadence command line or GUI to compile the design files. Ensure
there are no errors during the compilation process.

In my case i am compiling using the command: "xrun Final_AXI_to_APB_Bridge -access +rwc"


**Run Simulation:**

After successful compilation, set up the simulation environment.

Create a testbench that instantiates the AXI to APB bridge and simulates
various scenarios.

Run the simulation using the appropriate Cadence command.

In my case i am compiling using the command: "xrun Final_AXI_to_APB_Bridge Final_AXI_to_APB_Bridge_tb -access +rwc -gui"

**Analyze Results:**

After simulation, use Cadence\'s waveform viewer to examine the outputs.

# 

# **Conclusion:**

The AXI to APB Bridge design successfully integrates two distinct
protocols, ensuring efficient and seamless communication between
high-speed AXI masters and low-power APB peripherals. The comprehensive
testing in **Cadence** confirms its reliability, making it suitable for
deployment in embedded systems.
